     *

Risks 1060 - Legal challenge against ‘strike-breaking’ law | dangerously
labour laws ...

--
   sponsored by Thompsons Solicitors.
   UNION NEWS
     * Legal challenge against ‘strike-breaking’ law
     * TUC warning on dangerously lax labour laws
     * Furlough had ‘damaging’ impact on UK pilots
--


Legal challenge against ‘strike-breaking’ law

   Eleven trade unions, coordinated by the TUC have begun legal
   proceedings to protect the right to strike. The unions – ASLEF, BFAWU,
   FDA, GMB, NEU, NUJ, POA, PCS, RMT, Unite and Usdaw – have taken the
   case against the government’s new regulations which allow agency
   workers to fill in for striking workers and break strikes. TUC
   affiliated unions UNISON and NASUWT are also launching separate
   individual legal cases against the government’s agency worker
   regulations. TUC general secretary Frances O’Grady said: “The right to
   strike is a fundamental British liberty. But the government is
   attacking it in broad daylight.” She added: “Ministers failed to
   consult with unions, as the law requires. And restricting the freedom
   to strike is a breach of international law. That’s why unions are
   coming together to challenge this change in the courts.” The TUC has
   also made a complaint to the International Labour Organisation (ILO).
--

   HGV drivers and shunters at Mullers’ Stonehouse factory in
   Gloucestershire are taking further strike action over imposed rota
   changes they say are detrimental to their quality of life. The change
   to a five days on, two days off rota system contravenes an agreement
   with Unite signed by the company earlier this year. Nearly 70 staff,
   responsible for delivering milk and other dairy products to M&S and
   Waitrose nationwide, had already taken nine days of strike action since
   25 August. Unite general secretary Sharon Graham said: “Muller’s knows
   very well that the new rotas will negatively impact our members’
--
   Wages in the fire service are often about £30,000 but can be as low as
   £23,000. Firefighters are being balloted by their union the FBU for
   what would be its first strike in nearly a decade.
   FBU news release. The Observer. More on the hazards of low pay.

