   This content is not available in your region

When are UK Border Force strikes? Full list of strike dates, affected
airports and likely disruption

--
   [1200x675_cmsv2_d97901dd-32ff-5081-aae1-b975833f48ca-7156780.jpg]
   Members of the PCU union which represents Border Force staff will
   strike over the Christmas period.   -   Copyright  REUTERS/Hannah Mckay

   UK Border Force staff are kicking off the second in a series of strikes
   at airports across the country.

--
   passport control workers, walk out from 28-31 December.

   The initial strike action - conducted by members of The Public and
   Commercial Services Union (PCS) union -  began over the Christmas
   period from 23-26 December, but reportedly caused minimal disruption.
--
     * UK passport holders urgently warned to check expiry date before
       Christmas flights
     * Updated: All the travel strikes still set to go ahead across Europe
       in December and January

When are UK Border Force officers on strike?

   The strikes coincide with the busiest travel days of the festive
   season.

Top videos

   Officers went on strike all day on December 23, 24 and 25, and until
   7am on December 26.

   The next strikes begin on December 28, running until 7am on the last
   day of the year, December 31.

   Union leaders have warned that further strike action is possible if the
   government fails to negotiate a pay deal.
   Advertisement
--
   if not all" ports open.

   Separate strike action has closed three small airports in Scotland -
   Barra, Benbecula amd Sumburgh airports.

--
   to invest in joint working,” an airport spokesperson said.

   Border Force strikes will affect Heathrow terminals 2, 3, 4 and 5.

Will there be queues at Gatwick airport?

   Gatwick has said in a statement that it expects flights to operate as
   usual during the strikes. It is advising passengers to check the status
   of their flights and for those with a connection at the airport to
   allow extra time for their onward journey.
--
   At Manchester Airport, 200 new security staff are being recruited, but
   won't start work until April 2023. The airport has said it expects it
   will be necessary for airlines to cancel some services on strike days
   but it is working with them to ensure passengers are given as much
   notice as possible.

   Border force staff at the port of Newhaven, East Sussex were also
   included in the PCS announcement setting out locations of strikes.

Will ferry ports be affected by strikes?

   Workers at British ports like Dover, Plymouth and Portsmouth have not
--
   they will be involved in the walkout.

   Eurostar staff were due to strike but that has now been called off
   while negotiations continue.
     * Rail revival: The best new European train journeys to take in 2023
--
       between major European capitals

How will travellers be impacted by the UK border force strikes?

   More than 10,000 flights carrying up to 2 million passengers are
--

   "While we are working closely with all UK ports and airports and have
   robust plans in place to minimise any delays if strike action goes
   ahead, passengers should be prepared for their plans to be severely
   disrupted," UK Immigration Minister Robert Jenrick said in a statement.
--

   The government that it will be "travellers due to arrive in the UK" who
   should "expect delays and disruption over the strike action."

   However, during previous strikes there has been a knock-on effect for
   inbound travellers too as airports struggle to cope with passenger
   volumes.
--

   "We are doing everything we can to protect a full flight schedule on
   strike days," the airport said. Passengers have been advised to check
   their flight status before travelling.
   Passengers queue to check in, at Heathrow Airport in London. AP
--
   Manchester. CEO Steve Heapy said the airline "very much intends" to
   operate its full schedule of Christmas and new year flights - including
   the dates when strike action is taking place.

   "Our customers have worked hard to make precious holiday plans,
--

   A Virgin Atlantic spokesperson said that the airline was aware of
   planned strike action and will "continue to work closely with
   government and industry to support contingency planning and minimise
   disruption."
--
   we’re focused on supporting their travel plans, keeping them updated on
   any potential disruption at the border."
     * Flight delayed or cancelled due to snow or strikes? Your
       compensation rights explained
     * Will UK rail strikes affect your Christmas travel plans? Here are
       the trains that are still running

--

   Steve Dann has insisted that safety and security at borders will be
   "non-negotiable" during strike action.

   However unions have warned that military personnel are not properly
--
Why are border force officials striking?

   The strike is part of a larger coordinated action by thousands of civil
   servants. 100,000 PCS members in 214 government departments and other
   public bodies voted to take action
--
   inflation of 10.6 per cent.

   Mark Serwotka, the PCS general secretary, said that the strike would
   cause 'significant disruption' - but added that the cost of living
   crisis has left workers  "desperate" with no choice but to strike.

   "We have no option but to take industrial action because our members
--
   he said.

   "The government can stop these strikes tomorrow if it puts money on the
   table."
   View on euronews
--
   world news

UK grapples with more industrial action as postal workers strike

   Now playing Next
