   HR News

Private sector strike days hits highest level in over twenty years – 346,000 in
                                   last year

--
   4 years ago

     * Recent high profile strikes by workers at McDonald’s and TGI
       Friday’s

   The number of working days lost to strike action in the private sector
   has hit a twenty year high of 346,000 in the last year, says EMW, the
   commercial law firm.

   The number of private sector days lost to strikes more than doubled
   (140%) in the past year, up from 144,000 from 2016-17. The 346,000 days
   lost is the highest number of days lost in a single year since 1996-97.

   EMW adds that there have been a number of high-profile strikes in the
   private sector, in particular in the retail and leisure sectors,
   including:
--
       2018 over the restaurant group’s changes in policy over the sharing
       of tips
     * McDonald’s workers at branches across the UK went on strike over
       demands for a minimum £10-an-hour living wage in May 2018

   Strikes in the public transport sector also helped increase the number
   of days lost to strikes, with workers on South Western Railway and
   Northern Rail taking industrial action.

   The record high number of days lost to strikes in the private sector
   comes as the number of days lost in the public sector hits a record low
   10,000 in the same year. This is down by over 90% from 136,000 the
--
   EMW explains that the Trade Union Act, which came into force in March
   2017, has toughened the requirements that unions needed to meet for
   strikes in the public sector. Amongst other measures it introduced
   requirements for strikes to proceed of:
     * At least 50% minimum turnout
     * In ‘important public services’, such as health and education, a
--
   Jon Taylor, Principal at EMW, comments:

     “A twenty year high for days lost to strikes will concern many
     businesses.”

     “There could be even more days lost to strikes with employees
     frequently using social media platforms, such as WhatsApp, to
     organise unofficial strike action through sick leave – as has been
     reportedly the case with one major dispute in the railways sector.
     Staff do not necessarily need a union to lead action and can
     organise coordinated absences independently.”

     “In addition to newer, tougher legislation, contrasting levels of
     strikes in the private and public sector reflect overall changing
     work practices. Over the long-term, there has been a continued shift
     of individuals working in the private sector, along with a fall in
--


   EMW adds that the latest strike figures suggest that organised strikes
   in the private sector are now going on for much longer. There were 144
   stoppages in the last year, compared with 101 in the previous year. As
--
   to 3,089 to 1,425.

   Number of working days lost in the private sector to strikes hits 20
   year high


   *Year-end 31^st May 2018
   Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share

   Categories: HR News
