   (BUTTON)

Strikes every day before Christmas - which sectors are affected and why

Workers from a host of industries have voted to strike, or are balloting to
strike soon, as most call for pay rises in line with, or above, inflation
while the cost of living soars across the UK.

--
   Wednesday 21 December 2022 14:19, UK

   The UK is facing a wave of strikes this winter, with at least one
   walkout a day before the end of the year, as staff from different
   industries seek better pay.
--
   Rail

   Further rail strikes are set to take place from 6pm on Christmas Eve to
   29 December and 3-7 January.

   Eurostar strikes take place on 22 and 23 December.

   Various unions have planned rail strikes this winter.

   The Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) union represents Network
--
   deal", which is why they are striking.

   They had already announced they were joining other unions on strike but
   added another date of 5 January ahead of Christmas, saying the train
   companies "have pushed us into this place".
--
   Bus

   Stagecoach strikes in Sunderland will take place on 23-24 December and
   26-27 December.
   Image: There will be bus strikes in London and Sunderland

   GMB members who work as bus drivers for Stagecoach in Sunderland are
--
   Roads

   Staggered strikes across English regions until 7 January.

   22-25 December: London and South East. 30-31 December: West Midlands
--
   National Highways employees, who plan, design, build, operate and
   maintain the country's roads, will take part in a series of "staggered"
   strikes in England.

   Their union, PCS, says the action risks bringing the road network to a
   standstill and that the walkouts will coincide with the planned strikes
   by RMT members on the railways.

--
   29 December from 4am for 72 hours

   A strike planned by a total of 350 baggage handlers employed by Menzies
   at Heathrow airport due to start on 16 December has been suspended.

   Unite says this came after last-ditch talks as a "gesture of goodwill".

   A further 72-hour strike is planned for 29 January if a deal can't be
   struck.

--

   What promises to be more disruptive is PCS union members, working for
   UK Border Force, going on strike between 23-26 and 28-31 December.

   Click to subscribe to the Sky News Daily wherever you get your podcasts
--
   Postal

   Further Royal Mail strikes take place on 23-24 December.

   Members of the Communication Workers Union (CWU) are walking out in a
--
   with no letters on Saturdays.

   The strikes are going ahead after Royal Mail said it had delivered a
   "best and final" offer to the union, including a number of "extensive
   improvements".
--
   Nurses

   Members of the Royal College of Nursing went on strike in December for
   the first time ever following the government failing to commit to
   formal pay negotiations after a five-day deadline ended in November.

   Thousands of NHS nurses went on strike on 15 and 20 December as they
   call for a rise of 5% above inflation - 19.2% - as they said they have
   had a real terms pay cut of 20% since 2010.
--
   working beyond their shifts without extra pay.

   The strikes resulted in thousands of cancelled NHS operations and
   appointments.

   Ambulance staff

   Strikes take place on 21 and 28 December.

   Thousands of ambulance workers and other NHS staff are striking in a
   wave of coordinated industrial action.

   The first strike is taking place a day after members of the Royal
   College of Nursing staged their second walkout, also over pay.

--

   Junior doctors - any doctor below consultant level - who are BMA
   members will be balloted to strike on 9 January 2023.

   They say they have had a real terms pay cut of 26.1% since 2008, while
--

   They were also excluded from the 4.5% increase the rest of the NHS has
   been promised. A potential strike date has not been set.
   Image: Junior doctors went on their first strike ever in 2015, when
   Jeremy Hunt was health secretary

   Other NHS staff

   Five other unions are balloting for strike action, which could be
   co-ordinated, by NHS staff who are not junior doctors or nurses,
   including ambulance staff, midwives, physios, and hospital porters.

   Chartered Society of Physiotherapy members in Scotland have voted to
   strike in the next six months but will consider an offer from the
   Scottish government of a salary rise of 7%, or 11% for the lowest paid.

--

   Unite, the UK's second biggest union, is also balloting 10,000 NHS
   members ahead of Christmas for strikes in early 2023.

   NHS Unite members currently being balloted include: dentists,
--
   Thousands of Unison workers who are ambulance workers in the North
   East, North West, London, Yorkshire and the South West have voted to
   strike but dates have not been set and exact areas not yet confirmed as
   the vote was just below the 50% threshold for many NHS trusts.

--
   porters, cleaners, caterers, clerical staff, technicians, care workers,
   social workers and transport workers in Northern Ireland have voted to
   strike - expected to happen before Christmas.

   Firefighters

   More than 33,000 firefighters and control room staff started voting on
   5 December on whether to strike over pay.

   Members of the Fire Brigades Union (FBU) are being asked if they want
   to take industrial action over a "derisory" 5% pay rise.

   FBU general secretary Matt Wrack said: "Strike action will always be a
   last resort but we are running out of options.

--

   University lecturers, librarians, and researchers at 150 UK
   universities also went on strike on 24 and 30 November and 1 December
   in the biggest action of its kind in higher education - with more dates
   threatened.
--
   Civil servants

   Border Force officers will go on strike at Birmingham, Cardiff,
   Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester airports, as well as terminals 2, 3, 4,
   5 at Heathrow and the Port of Newhaven from 23-26 and 28-31 December.
--

   Around 100,000 civil service members of the Public and Commercial
   Services Union (PCS) began a month of strikes from mid-December as they
   call for a 10% pay rise, better pension conditions, job security and to
   scrap planned redundancy reforms.
--
   Department for Transport, including the DVLA and Driver and Vehicle
   Standards Agency, and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural
   Affairs, including the Rural Payments Agency, will go on strike.
   Image: Border Force staff will be among the civil servants going on
   strike

   The government has said they "greatly value" civil servants' work but
--
   Food delivery

   Strike dates will be announced for the Christmas period.

   Almost 400 GMB members who work for Bestfood and deliver food to chain
   restaurants such as KFC, Burger King, Pizza Hut, Zizzi, Pizza Express
   and Wagamama have voted to strike.

   GMB said Bestfood's parent companies - Booker and Tesco - are "making
--

   Anyone who likes Haywards Pickled Onions over the festive season should
   take note of a factory strike.

   The Mizkan Euro factory in Rochdale has already seen 20 days of lost
--

   More than 600 workers at the housing and homeless charity Shelter went
   on a planned and unprecedented fortnight of strike action on 5 December
   in a dispute over pay.

--
   staff unable to pay their rent.

   The strike ended early after 10 days following an increased pay offer
   of 7% plus a one-off payment of £1,250.
   Outbrain
