Key Information and SU Updates
          + Cost of Living Support
          + UCU Strikes
          + UNISON Strikes

   Menu
--
     * Support
     * Key Information and SU Updates
     * UCU Strikes

UCU Strikes

December 2022
--

   UCU, the University and College Union, have balloted and voted in
   favour of taking strike action over disputes over pay and working
   conditions, and pension cuts. Further information can be found on UCU's
   web pages about the strikes. Strike action will begin in November.

   The ballots were aggregated, which means that for the first time in
   these disputes, all universities in that ballot will be hit by strike
   action, rather than individual institutions. Over 70,000 university
   staff at 150 universities could now strike after University and College
   Union (UCU) members overwhelmingly voted 'yes' to strike action in two
   historic national ballots.

--

   We are already speaking to senior staff members at the University about
   the strikes and are committed to the actions set out in our active
   policy on this issue to mitigate the impact on the educational
   experience of taught students, as well as supporting our staff who are
--
   and we also respect the right of university staff to pursue industrial
   action. In particular, our members who are PGR students may be taking
   part in the strike, and we will support them for the benefit of their
   careers in academia.

   We plan to give regular updates on the strikes and have answered a
   range of questions below.  You can also see an overview of action which
   took place in 21-22.

   If you have concerns about how the strikes are affecting your
   education, you should contact your course rep who can bring this up at
   their Student-Staff Liaison Committee meetings, or with relevant staff
   members.

More info about the strikes

   What is the strike about?

   UCU members are currently involved in disputes over unsafe workloads,
   casualisation and equality failings, and USS pensions and pay. These
   issues are negotiated at a national level between representative bodies
   of Universities (e.g. UUK) and workers (e.g. UCU). Strikes are a
   legitimate tactic used by trade unions when they feel that the bodies
   they are negotiating with are not meeting their demands or making a
--
   at the beginning of their careers. UCU believes the cuts were not
   necessary and can now be revoked.
   When are the strike days?

   Strike action has been confirmed as taking place on the following days:
     * Thursday 24 November
     * Friday 25 November
     * Wednesday 30 November

   Staff will also begin industrial action short of strike action from
   Wednesday 23 November, which includes working to rule, refusing to make
   up work lost as a result of strike action and refusing to cover for
   absent colleagues.
   What is action short of a strike?

   Action short of a strike means that staff will not be doing any work
   beyond what is required to fulfil their contract; this includes not
   working extra hours, not covering for absent colleagues, not
   rescheduling lectures or classes cancelled due to strike action and not
   undertaking any voluntary activities.
   Will all staff be on strike?

   No, not all staff will be on strike. Some staff are members of other
   trade unions who have not secured a mandate to go on strike and so are
   not permitted to.  Lecturers do not have to notify the University
   before they go on strike so we cannot know exactly who will strike on
   any given day. In our experience, many lecturers will let you know if
   your teaching is going to be cancelled.
--
   On Thursday 24 November and Wednesday 30 November, it is planned that
   members of UNISON (usually professional services staff) will also be on
   strike, so there may be greater levels of disruption.
   What is a picket line?

   A picket line is a boundary established by staff on strike, especially
   at the entrance to the place of work, which striking staff ask others
   not to cross. It is likely that you will see picket lines outside some
   University buildings on strikes days, with staff holding placards,
   handing out campaign materials and talking to students and staff about
   their cause. In our experience they are peaceful and friendly
--

   If you are thinking about making a complaint, we would encourage you to
   wait to see how the University responds to the impact of the strike
   first. This is so you can explain why the arrangements that have been
   made have not mitigated the impact on your studies.
--
More info about what the SU is doing

   Does Bristol SU support the strikes?

   Yes, Bristol SU supports our striking lecturers and postgraduate
--

   We released the following statement on anti-marketisation as part of
   our work in supporting the strikes:

   Bristol SU stands against the marketisation of higher education, and we
--

   A common way that you might be asked to show support to striking staff
   is to avoid “crossing picket lines” during the strike, e.g. by not
   attending teaching on strike days. The University advise that students
   who chose not to cross picket lines will need to take personal
   responsibility for the teaching and learning that they will be missing.
   We believe it is up to individual students to make up their minds about
   whether to cross picket lines, but will ensure that students are
   informed about this is as a way of supporting the strikes.

   Other ways that you can support striking staff are:
--
   18:30 onwards - Drinks at The Bell, 16-18 Hillgrove St BS2 8JT

More info about how the strikes might affect students

   Will the strikes affect my lectures, seminars and tutorials?

   Only some lectures, seminars and tutorials will be cancelled due to
   strike action. Striking staff do not need to notify the University
   before they go on strike, so it is not possible to know in advance
   which teaching will be affected. In our experience, many striking staff
   will choose to let students know in advance if they are going to go on
   strike. We will be working with our network of course reps to look for
   ways that we can help disseminate any information about cancelled
   teaching to affected students.

   The university have taken a position that where lectures are cancelled
   due to the strike, lecture recordings will not be made available
   without permission of the lecturer. This supports the right of staff to
   take industrial action.

   The SU are working to mitigate the impact of the strikes
   on student’s educational experience. If you have concerns about how the
   strikes are affecting your education, please speak to your Course
   Representative.
   I am a student and I don’t want to cross the picket line. Where does
--
   Picket lines are likely to be peaceful and friendly. We know that UCU
   members appreciate the show of solidarity from students who choose not
   to cross the picket lines, e.g. by not attending teaching on strike
   days. If you do not cross the picket line, the University expects you
   to take personal responsibility for missed teaching and learning.
--
   open and available?

   Some student services staff may be members of UCU and on strike, but
   the services will generally remain open. If individual appointments are
   cancelled, you will usually receive an email to let you know in
   advance.
   I am an international student - will the strikes affect my visa?

   Your visa should not be affected by strikes. If your lecturers are on
   strike, you will be given an authorised absence with a note to say that
   your absence is due to strikes. If your lecturers are not on strike,
   attendance monitoring will continue as normal. We have asked the
   University to ensure they provide specific information to international
   students about the strikes, but if you have any questions please
   contact Student Visa Services at the University.
   I am a PhD student - will the strikes affect my viva?

   If you have a viva that is scheduled for a strike day, the University
   should email you on an individual basis to let you know whether the
   viva will be taking place. You should assume that your viva will go
   ahead unless you hear otherwise.
   I feel like the strikes are stressing me out and affecting my mental
   health. What can I do?

--
   find details of the support available here:
   https://www.bristol.ac.uk/students/wellbeing/.
   I feel that I have been unfairly disadvantaged by the strikes - what
   can I do about this?

   Bristol SU is working closely with University of Bristol staff to
   ensure that no student should be unfairly disadvantaged by the strike -
   for example, to make sure that students who have missed out on teaching
   can get changes or extensions to their assessments. If you feel that
   you have been unfairly impacted by the strikes, you can speak to one of
   our Academic Advice team who can advise you on how to tell the
   University about any extenuating circumstances, submit a complaint, or
--
I still have questions

   If you would like more information about how the strike action is
   affecting university services and who you can contact, please see the
   University's webpage.

   If you would like more information on the pay dispute, please see UCU's
   web pages about the strikes.

   To contact a Bristol SU Officer to discuss the impact of the strike on
   students, please email your Undergraduate Education Officer,
   nicole.antoine.2017@bristol.ac.uk or your Postgraduate Education
   Officer, lu.macey@bristol.ac.uk.

   For further advice on what to do if the strikes are affecting your
   studies, please email bristolsu-advice@bristol.ac.uk.

--

   The University and College Union (UCU) balloted in October 2021 on
   taking strike action or ‘action short of a strike’ over disputes over
   pay and the USS pension scheme.

   The results of these ballots confirmed that University of Bristol
   academic staff and research postgraduates who teach, who are members of
   UCU, voted in favour of taking strike action in this academic year over
   pension disputes, and pay and conditions.

   Multiple periods of Industrial Action took place throughout the 2021-22
   academic year, including Action Short of a Strike.

   Your SU Officer team spoke to senior staff members at the University
   about the strikes and were committed to mitigating the impact on the
   educational experience of taught students, as well as supporting our
   staff who were striking.
--
   As part of the NUS New Vision for Education Campaign students walked
   out of university and gathered in central London on Wednesday 2 March
   for a student strike to demand education that is fully funded,
   accessible, democratised and lifelong. We supported a free coach for
   students from UoB and UWE to attend the event.
