     * Find An Expert

   The Tube strike resulted in workers having to find alternative routes
   which in some cases were more convenient.
   The Tube strike resulted in workers having to find alternative routes
   which in some cases were more convenient.

--
   Share on Reddit

   HomeNewsThe London Tube strike 'brought economic benefits for workers'

The London Tube strike 'brought economic benefits for workers'

   PolicyResearch

   New analysis of the London Tube strike in February 2014 finds that it
   enabled a sizeable fraction of commuters to find better routes to work,
   and actually produced a net economic benefit due to the number of
--
   Cambridge analysed 20 days’ worth of anonymised Oyster card data,
   containing more than 200 million data points, in order to see how
   individual Tube journeys changed during the strike. Since this
   particular strike only resulted in a partial closure of the Tube
   network and not all commuters were affected by the strike, a direct
   comparison was possible. The data enabled the researchers to see
   whether people chose to go back to their normal commute once the strike
   was over, or if they found a more efficient route and decided to
   switch.

    The researchers found that of the regular commuters affected by the
   strike, either because certain stations were closed or because travel
   times were considerably different, a significant fraction – about one
   in 20 – decided to stick with their new route once the strike was over.

    While the proportion of individuals who ended up changing their routes
   may sound small, the researchers found that the strike actually ended
   up producing a net economic benefit. By performing a cost-benefit
   analysis of the amount of time saved by those who changed their daily
   commute, the researchers found that the amount of time saved in the
   longer term actually outweighed the time lost by commuters during the
   strike.

    The London Tube map itself may have been a reason why many commuters
   did not find their optimal journey before the strike. In many parts of
   London, the actual distances between stations are distorted on the
   iconic map. By digitising the Tube map and comparing it to the actual
   distances between stations, the researchers found that those commuters
   living in, or travelling to, parts of London where distortion is
   greatest were more likely to have learned from the strike and found a
   more efficient route.  Additionally, since different Tube lines travel
   at different speeds, those commuters who had been travelling on one of
   the slower lines were also more likely to switch routes once the strike
   was over.

--

    According to the authors, being forced to alter a routine, whether
   that’s due to a Tube strike or government regulation, can often lead to
   net benefits, as people or corporations are forced to innovate. In
   economics, this is known as the Porter hypothesis.
