   Advertisement

When are the train strikes and why are they taking place?

   1 June 2022
--

   Rail passengers are being warned of further disruption across Britain's
   railways, with strikes over Christmas and in early January.

   Industrial action is being taken in a dispute over pay, job security
   and working conditions.

   The RMT rail workers' union has announced strikes on:
     * Saturday 24 (from 18:00 GMT) until Tuesday 27 December (06:00 GMT)
     * Tuesday and Wednesday, 3-4 January
     * Friday and Saturday, 6-7 January

   Previous strikes by the RMT have had a major impact on services
   throughout England, Scotland and Wales. Passengers should check their
   train-operating company's website and only travel if absolutely
--
   says half of rail lines will be shut. Most of Scotland and Wales will
   have no trains running. Significant disruption is also likely on
   non-strike days.

   In addition, the train drivers' union, Aslef, has called a strike on 5
   January - between the RMT strikes.

   Its action will affect operations across 15 rail companies:
--
     * West Midlands Trains

   Unite the Union will also strike - affecting East Midlands Railway - on
   23 and 24 December.

   The TSSA union will strike - affecting Cross Country services - on 26
   and 27 December.

   It will also strike on 28 and 29 December, affecting GWR and West
   Midlands Railway.
     * Which workers are allowed to go on strike?
     * The strikes taking place in December

When is the Eurostar strike?

   Security staff on the Eurostar train service were set to strike for
   four days in the run-up to Christmas.

   Strikes on 16 and 18 December were called off, while RMT members
   considered a pay offer.

   However, strikes on 22 and 23 December are still due to go ahead.

   The RMT said the strike would "severely affect" passengers. Eurostar
   said its services will not run to and from St Pancras in London on
   Boxing Day due to the UK high-speed line being closed because of strike
   action.
     * Eurostar security staff to strike before Christmas

Why have railway workers been on strike?

   The unions are in dispute with the government and rail companies about
--
   The RMT disagrees with some of the changes and wants a guarantee of no
   compulsory job losses.
     * The strikes taking place in December

What deal have rail workers been offered?
--
     * Read more: How much are rail workers paid?

   How will the rail strikes affect your journey? What alternative forms
   of transport are you using? Share your experiences by emailing
   haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
--
     * Rail travel
     * RMT
     * Strike action

Top Stories
--
     *

LIVE Live, Thousands of ambulance workers strike as public told to avoid
risks
     *

Blame game escalates over ambulance strike
       3 hours ago
     *
--
     *

What calls will ambulances answer on strike day?
       9 hours ago
     *

Strike daily: How Thursday's action will affect you
       1 hour ago
     *
--
     *

The Ambulance Strike
       7 February 2020

