   Advertisement

Rail strikes: Passengers warned not to travel by train next week

     * By Michael Race
--

   Train passengers are to be told to only travel next week if it is
   absolutely necessary, even if rail worker strikes are called off at the
   last minute.

--
   Network Rail over pay, jobs and conditions.

   Disruption will be inevitable even if strikes are aborted because of
   how long it takes to restore a normal timetable.

--

   Network Rail, which owns and maintains Britain's railway
   infrastructure, said 50% of the railways will be shut down on strike
   days, regardless of whether the walkouts go ahead.

--
   GMT, it added.

   Delays and cancellations are also expected on non-strike days during
   the week, because trains will be in the wrong places and staff shift
   patterns mean it takes time for all workers to return to work.
     * When are the next train strikes?

   The RMT has staged a series of strikes since the summer involving about
   40,000 rail workers employed by Network Rail and 14 train companies.

   Further action is planned with Network Rail workers set to strike from
   18:30 on Christmas Eve until 27 December.

   They will then be joined by workers at the train companies for strikes
   on 3-4 January and 6-7 January.

   Businesses, particularly those in hospitality, have raised concerns
   over the impact of the strikes during the busy festive period, with
   industry experts suggesting more than £1.5bn of trade could be lost.

   Several meetings between unions bosses, train companies and Network
   Rail have so far failed to prevent strikes on the railways, which have
   been happening on and off for months.

--
   referendum, but has called for it to be rejected.

   As things stand, next week's strikes will go ahead.

   Even if they are cancelled, significant disruption now looks
--
   timetable.

   As with previous national RMT strikes, very few trains will run and
   some places will have none at all. A key reason is the involvement of
   Network Rail's signalling staff across Britain.
--

   But we won't know the result of that electronic referendum until Monday
   afternoon, the eve of the first 48-hour strike.

   Even if the deal was accepted (against the recommendation of the RMT),
   it would be too late to reinstate normal services on Tuesday.

   The rail industry is not the only sector facing strike action, with
   postal workers, bus drivers, teachers and nurses all set to walk out
   this month. Ambulance staff across many parts of England and Wales are
   also set to strike on 21 and 28 December.

   Workers are demanding better conditions and pay rises that match
--

   RMT general secretary Mick Lynch has said he regrets the inconvenience
   caused by the strikes but added that the government is ultimately to
   blame. "They are running the playbook and the strategy for the railway
   companies and directing what's going on," he said.

   How will you be affected by the rail strikes? Are your Christmas plans
   being disrupted? Share your experiences by emailing
   haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
--
     * Rail travel
     * RMT
     * Strike action

Related content

December train strikes: Union told not to hold country 'to ransom'

   The new Christmas Eve walkout threatens to hit celebrations and travel
--
     *

LIVE Live, Thousands of ambulance workers strike as public told to avoid
risks
     *

Blame game escalates over ambulance strike
       3 hours ago
     *
--
     *

What calls will ambulances answer on strike day?
       9 hours ago
     *

Strike daily: How Thursday's action will affect you
       1 hour ago
     *
--
     *

The Ambulance Strike
       7 February 2020

