   Advertisement

Who's going on strike, and when?

   22 August 2022
--
   Image caption,

   Commuters at rush hour during a strike on Thursday

   Thousands of workers across a number of industries are taking, or
   considering, strike action.

   Many unions say wages are not keeping pace with the rising cost of
   living and their members need a pay rise.

   So who's going on strike, when, and how will it affect you?

Railways
--
   Advertisement

   No more strike dates have currently been set, but more strikes are very
   likely, says union boss Mick Lynch after a summer of disrupted travel
   for passengers. Unions have to give two weeks' notice of any walkout.

   Strikes in recent weeks left only 20% of trains running on some days
   and no services in parts of the country - hitting commuters and people
   travelling to big events such as the Commonwealth Games.
--

   The chairman of the Criminal Bar Association, Jo Sidhu, speaks during a
   strike in June

   Criminal barristers in England and Wales are taking part in an
   indefinite, uninterrupted strike over an ongoing row with the
   government over pay, working conditions and legal aid funding.

   The strike ramped up in September. Before that, barristers were
   striking on alternate weeks and refused to carry out certain types of
   work.
--
   At the end of September, the government made a fresh offer with fee
   increases for legal aid work. Barristers will now be asked to vote on
   the proposals and whether to end the strike.

   During previous days of industrial action between 27 June and 5 August,
--
Postal services

   Workers at Royal Mail have voted for further strike action - after
   already deciding to walk out on 26 and 31 August, and 8 and 9
   September.

   During strike days, Royal Mail said it would not deliver letters -
   except for special delivery - and would prioritise Covid tests and
   prescriptions and deliver as many tracked and special delivery parcels
--
   The Communication Workers Union (CWU) has asked for a pay rise that
   reflects the current cost of living.
     * Which workers are allowed to go on strike?
     * Criminal barristers vote to go on all-out strike
     * Strike continues at UK's biggest container port

Container ports
--
   Workers protest outside of the UK's biggest container port in Suffolk

   A strike at the UK's busiest container port is under way after union
   members walked out on Sunday for an expected eight-day walkout.

--
Telecoms

   BT and Openreach workers have announced fresh strikes after thousands
   of staff walked out twice in July in a row over pay.

--
   Teachers are asking for a 12% pay rise

   Various teaching unions have planned or threatened to take strike
   action over disputes on pay and working conditions - with unions
   calling for a 12% pay rise.

   NEU members working in sixth form colleges will be walking out on 17
   October.. If necessary further strike days will be held on 5 and 20
   November.

   Members of teaching union NASUWT have also warned of a potential vote
   on strike action after its members in Wales rejected a below-inflation
   pay rise.

--

   Unite and the Royal College of Nursing have said that hundreds of
   thousands of NHS workers will be balloted on strike action in a protest
   over a salary offer.

--

   Union leaders similarly warned at the beginning of August that NHS
   workers in Scotland were prepared to strike over pay - including
   doctors.

--
   Image caption,

   Edinburgh is facing a 12-day waste collection strike

   Refuse workers across Scotland are striking after unions rejected a pay
--
   walkouts, including refuse staff in Windsor and Maidenhead.

What are the rules for strikes?

     * A strike can only happen if a majority of union members agree to it
       via an organised vote, known as a ballot
     * If workers do decide to take industrial action, the employer must
       be given 14 days notice, unless otherwise agreed
     * Police officers are banned from taking strike action and nurses
       have an agreement that they should only walk out if it does not
       risk the wellbeing of patients
     * Workers on strike can expect to lose wages for the time they do not
       work
     * People can choose to continue working during a strike

   The government has recently introduced a new law allowing businesses to
--
   However, the union Unison says it will mount a legal challenge.

   Elsewhere in the UK, other strikes and threats have amounted over the
   summer:
     * Bus drivers in Kent and Essex are set to strike after turning down
       a pay offer, but official dates are yet to be set
     * Journalists at a newspaper group in Scotland have withdrawn plans
       to strike in a dispute over compulsory redundancies
     * More than 1,000 council staff in Northern Ireland have walked out
       over a pay and conditions dispute
     * Staff at a contact centre in Liverpool which handles thousands of
       criminal background checks staged a six-day strike

Related topics

   Strike action

Related content
--
     *

Trade unions: What are they and who is allowed to strike?
       9 December 2022
     *

Heathrow BA strike suspended after new pay offer
       7 July 2022
     *

Thousands of BT workers vote to strike over pay
       30 June 2022

