    7. 2022
    8. •
    9. Biggest ever university strikes set to hit UK campuses over pay,
       conditions & pensions

--
   UCULondonHERally

Biggest ever university strikes set to hit UK campuses over pay, conditions &
pensions

   8 November 2022

   Over 70,000 university staff at 150 universities will strike for three
   days later this month over attacks on pay, working conditions and
   pensions. The National Union of Students (NUS) has backed the strikes,
   which will be the biggest ever to hit UK universities and could impact
   2.5 million students.

   UCU said disruption can be avoided if employers act fast and make
   improved offers. If they don't, strike action will escalate in the New
   Year alongside a marking and assessment boycott.

   The full strike dates in November are:
     * Thursday 24 November
     * Friday 25 November
     * Wednesday 30 November.

   Staff will also begin industrial action short of strike action from
   Wednesday 23 November, which includes working to rule, refusing to make
   up work lost as a result of strike action and refusing to cover for
   absent colleagues.

   The strikes come after UCU members overwhelmingly voted 'yes'
   to industrial action last month in two historic national ballots over
   attacks on pay and working conditions as well as pension cuts. Despite
--

   UCU general secretary Jo Grady said: 'Campuses across the UK are about
   to experience strike action on a scale never seen before. 70,000 staff
   will walk out and make clear they refuse to accept falling pay, cuts to
   pensions and insecure employment.
--
   in surpluses whilst slashing staff pensions.

   'UCU members do not want to strike but are doing so to save the sector
   and win dignity at work. This dispute has the mass support of students
   because they know their learning conditions are our members' working
--

   'If university vice-chancellors don't get serious, our message is
   simple - this bout of strike action will be just the beginning.'

   NUS vice president higher education Chloe Field said: 'Students stand
   in solidarity with the 70,000 university staff across the UK who will
   strike later this month. Staff teaching conditions are students'
   learning conditions, and we must fight together for a fairer, healthier
   education system for everyone who works and studies.

   'This is the fifth year in a row that government cuts to education and
   workers' rights have resulted in strike action on our campuses. In that
   time, staff and students have stood together in the fight for better
   pay and conditions for all university staff, including the thousands of
