   ____________________

How to organise your own 'strike'

    1. Preparation
--
    7. Wrap up

   If you’re not near an organised strike, and there aren’t any young
   people interested in organising a strike in your area, that doesn’t
   mean you have to stay at home. Here are some tips on how to organise
   your own ‘strike'.

   30 Aug 2019
--
Preparation

   Get people to help you organise your strike. You’ll have an idea of
   which of your friends or group members are great people organisers and
   rabble raisers, or who is good on social media or good with a camera.
--
   responsibility for a certain area of work.

   Think about where you will hold your strike – ideally it will be
   somewhere accessible and recognisable where plenty of people can join,
   like outside your town hall, and will be scheduled to happen at the
   same time as the other strikes.

   You don’t need permission to organise a peaceful protest in a public
--

   You could also use our social media resources to let people know that
   there will be a strike in their local area. Create a Facebook event,
   invite your friends and share it with groups that you know might be
   interested.
--
Visualising

   Think about what you want your strike to look like and work with others
   to make sure it looks engaging and fun. You could use our resources to
   make your own placards and posters. You could even make one of our
--
       communications we make them invisible. Try to make sure that you
       remember this international aspect of climate justice in your
       strike prep and don’t just concentrate on the future effects of
       climate breakdown.

--

   You might be content to assemble and simply stand together for your
   strike, but you could also think about more interactive ways to keep
   people occupied.

   Here are some ideas of things you could do during your strike:
     * Give each person an A3 sheet of paper and a thick pen. Ask them to
       write on the paper why they are supporting the strike today. Take a
       photo of them holding their sign and share it on social media.
     * Got a big crowd? Why not lead them in some chants. You could use
--
     * Take a photo of your group together. If you haven’t made a banner
       you could write a message (like ‘Bridport supports the climate
       strikers’) on pieces of paper and hold them up together.

Have a conversation
--
   people about your next group meeting.

   You could also hand these out to any new people who join your strike
   but make sure you have a chat with them as well. It might be that they
   are a seasoned campaigner, deeply involved with other groups, or they
--
Share, Share, Share!

   Your strike won’t have shown solidarity with the youth strikers if they
   don’t know that it has happened – so you need to make sure that you can
   share the fruits of your labour on social media. Remember, if that
--

   You can read our guide on how to use social media if you'd like some
   tips. The hashtags we’ll be using for the strike are #ClimateStrike and
   #TakeClimateAction.

