     * Home
     * ›
     * Politics

   (BUTTON)
     * Home
     * UK
     * World
     * Politics
     * US
     * Climate
     * Science & Tech
     * Business
     * Ents & Arts
     * Travel
     * Offbeat
     * Analysis
     * Data & Forensics
     * Videos
     * Weather

   (BUTTON)

Trade unions vow to fight government over strike legislation to 'keep Britain
moving' during strikes

This year has been plagued by travel chaos, caused by months of industrial
action by railway workers in bitter disputes over pay, jobs and conditions.

   Sunday 16 October 2022 05:12, UK

   The government is pressing ahead to introduce legislation which will
   require transport workers to run a minimum service when strikes are
   taking place.

   It comes after commuters have been plagued by months of travel chaos
   caused by industrial action by railway workers, who are calling for
   better pay, working conditions and job security.

   But trade unions have insisted the proposals will undermine workers'
   right to strike and have promised to defend their members.

   New chancellor warns of 'tough decisions' ahead - Politics latest

   The legislation is part of a pledge made by the prime minister to
   introduce such a bill within the first 30 days of parliament sitting.

   Liz Truss is aiming to ensure transport services, including rail, tubes
   and buses, cannot be completely shutdown when workers go on strike.

   "The government stood on a manifesto commitment to introduce minimum
   service levels. As we have seen only too often in recent months, it is
   wrong that strikes are preventing hard-working people and families up
   and down the country from getting to work, doctors' appointments and
   school," a government source said.

More on Rail Strikes

     * Business secretary hopeful of strike resolution as rail workers
       continue industrial action
     * Rail strikes: Pay deal 'achievable' between train companies and
       unions, RMT boss Mick Lynch says
     * 'Significant' disruption as rail strikes begin and freezing weather
       continues to grip UK

Related Topics:

     * Rail strikes

   "That is why we are introducing this legislation, to keep Britain
   moving, ensure people can get to work, earn their own living and grow
   the economy."

   The minimum service levels law is expected to come into force next
   year.
   Advertisement

   Similar legislation already exists in some western European countries,
   such as France and Spain, but unions have criticised the move as being
   "unworkable".
   What are rail workers asking for?

   'Unfair, unworkable and incompatible'

   TUC general secretary Frances O'Grady said the proposals "undermine the
   right to strike" and called for the government to "stop blocking
   negotiations" to allow workers and unions to reach an agreement

   "Truss and her ministers want to make it harder for workers to win
   better pay and conditions. It's a cynical distraction from their own
   failings," he said.

   "The changes are unfair, unworkable and incompatible with our
   international commitments. Trade unions will oppose them every step of
   the way."

   Read more:
   Nine tips to reduce how much fuel you use
   Worst performing rail operator revealed
   'Time for union bosses to get out of the way'

   Rail, Maritime and Transport union general secretary Mick Lynch said
   the restrictions will only make it "more difficult to reach a
   negotiated settlement" in the current rail dispute.

   "We already have the most draconian and restrictive anti-trade union
   laws in Western Europe," he said.

   "Working people are fed up with the government trying to make them
   scapegoats for the country's problems."

   Mick Whelan, general secretary of the train drivers union Aslef,
   described the idea as "stupid", adding that it shows Ms Truss wants to
   make industrial action "ineffective".
   Outbrain

     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy & Cookies Notice
     * Accessibility Information
     * Contact Us
     * Privacy Settings

   © 2022 Sky UK
