   #alternate alternate alternate

We've updated our Privacy and Cookies Policy

   We've made some important changes to our Privacy and Cookies Policy and
   we want you to know what this means for you and your data.
     * (BUTTON) OK
     * Find out what's changed

Let us know you agree to data collection on AMP

   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and collect
   browsing data to give you the best online experience and to personalise
   the content and advertising shown to you. Please let us know if you
   agree.
     * (BUTTON) Accept data collection and continue
     * (BUTTON) Manage my settings

Manage consent settings on AMP pages

   These settings apply to AMP pages only. You may be asked to set these
   preferences again when you visit non-AMP BBC pages.

   The lightweight mobile page you have visited has been built using
   Google AMP technology.

Strictly necessary data collection

   To make our web pages work, we store some limited information on your
   device without your consent.

   Read more about the essential information we store on your device to
   make our web pages work.

   We use local storage to store your consent preferences on your device.

Optional data collection

   When you consent to data collection on AMP pages you are consenting to
   allow us to display personalised ads that are relevant to you when you
   are outside of the UK.

   Read more about how we personalise ads in the BBC and our advertising
   partners.

   You can choose not to receive personalised ads by clicking “Reject data
   collection and continue” below. Please note that you will still see
   advertising, but it will not be personalised to you.

   You can change these settings by clicking “Ad Choices / Do not sell my
   info” in the footer at any time.
     * (BUTTON) Accept data collection and continue
     * (BUTTON) Reject data collection and continue

   BBC NewsSkip to content

   (BUTTON) Sections
     * Home
     * UK
     * World
     * Business
     * Politics
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Health
     * Family & Education
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Stories

     * Home
     * UK
     * World
     * Business
     * Politics
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Health
     * Family & Education
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Stories

   Advertisement

Rail strikes: Passengers warned not to travel by train next week

     * By Michael Race
     * Business reporter, BBC News

   7 December 2022

   Image source, Getty Images

   Train passengers are to be told to only travel next week if it is
   absolutely necessary, even if rail worker strikes are called off at the
   last minute.

   Workers at the UK's biggest rail union, the RMT, will walk out on 13-14
   and 16-17 December causing major disruption.

   It is part of a long-running dispute between unions, operators and
   Network Rail over pay, jobs and conditions.

   Disruption will be inevitable even if strikes are aborted because of
   how long it takes to restore a normal timetable.

   Advertisement

   Network Rail, which owns and maintains Britain's railway
   infrastructure, said 50% of the railways will be shut down on strike
   days, regardless of whether the walkouts go ahead.

   Only 20% of services will operate between the hours of 07:30 and 18:30
   GMT, it added.

   Delays and cancellations are also expected on non-strike days during
   the week, because trains will be in the wrong places and staff shift
   patterns mean it takes time for all workers to return to work.
     * When are the next train strikes?

   The RMT has staged a series of strikes since the summer involving about
   40,000 rail workers employed by Network Rail and 14 train companies.

   Further action is planned with Network Rail workers set to strike from
   18:30 on Christmas Eve until 27 December.

   They will then be joined by workers at the train companies for strikes
   on 3-4 January and 6-7 January.

   Businesses, particularly those in hospitality, have raised concerns
   over the impact of the strikes during the busy festive period, with
   industry experts suggesting more than £1.5bn of trade could be lost.

   Several meetings between unions bosses, train companies and Network
   Rail have so far failed to prevent strikes on the railways, which have
   been happening on and off for months.

   The RMT is involved in two negotiating battles, one with Network Rail,
   where it represents signallers and maintenance workers, and the other
   with the Rail Delivery Group (RDG), which represents the 14 train
   companies.

   The union has rejected an RDG offer which included a 4% pay rise both
   this year and next.

   It has decided to put Network Rail's offer, which includes a 5% pay
   rise this year and a 4% rise next year, to its members in an electronic
   referendum, but has called for it to be rejected.

   As things stand, next week's strikes will go ahead.

   Even if they are cancelled, significant disruption now looks
   inevitable. Network Rail had said Monday night was the deadline for
   action to be called off, to give time to switch back to a normal
   timetable.

   As with previous national RMT strikes, very few trains will run and
   some places will have none at all. A key reason is the involvement of
   Network Rail's signalling staff across Britain.

   The organisation and ministers have long called for the RMT to let
   workers decide whether to accept a proposed offer. The union's members
   at Network Rail - unlike those at train companies - are now getting a
   vote.

   But we won't know the result of that electronic referendum until Monday
   afternoon, the eve of the first 48-hour strike.

   Even if the deal was accepted (against the recommendation of the RMT),
   it would be too late to reinstate normal services on Tuesday.

   The rail industry is not the only sector facing strike action, with
   postal workers, bus drivers, teachers and nurses all set to walk out
   this month. Ambulance staff across many parts of England and Wales are
   also set to strike on 21 and 28 December.

   Workers are demanding better conditions and pay rises that match
   inflation, as the cost of living rises at its fastest rate for 41
   years.

   On Wednesday, Transport Secretary Mark Harper told a committee of MPs
   that he was "very disappointed" that the RMT had turned down the pay
   offers.

   He said the dispute was not just about pay, but about reforming the
   railways, as fewer people were using trains compared to before the
   pandemic.

   "The taxpayer has put £31bn of support into the rail industry over the
   past two years," he said. "That's equivalent to over £1,000 per
   household in the country. That is the context about why we need
   reform."

   He added commuter traffic was about 60% of what it was pre-pandemic,
   due to more people working remotely.

   RMT general secretary Mick Lynch has said he regrets the inconvenience
   caused by the strikes but added that the government is ultimately to
   blame. "They are running the playbook and the strategy for the railway
   companies and directing what's going on," he said.

   How will you be affected by the rail strikes? Are your Christmas plans
   being disrupted? Share your experiences by emailing
   haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.

   Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC
   journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
     * WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803
     * Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSay
     * Upload pictures or video
     * Please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy

   Sorry, we can’t display this part of the story on this lightweight
   mobile page.
   View the full version of the page to see all the content.
   Sorry, we can’t display this part of the story on this lightweight
   mobile page.
   View the full version of the page to see all the content.

   If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to
   visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or
   comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include
   your name, age and location with any submission.
   Sorry, we can’t display this part of the story on this lightweight
   mobile page.
   View the full version of the page to see all the content.

Related topics

     * Rail travel
     * RMT
     * Strike action

Related content

December train strikes: Union told not to hold country 'to ransom'

   The new Christmas Eve walkout threatens to hit celebrations and travel
   over the festive weekend.
   6 December 2022

Top Stories

     *

LIVE Live, Thousands of ambulance workers strike as public told to avoid
risks
     *

Blame game escalates over ambulance strike
       3 hours ago
     *

LIVE Live, Zelensky arrives in US on first foreign trip since invasion

Features & Analysis

     *

What calls will ambulances answer on strike day?
       9 hours ago
     *

Strike daily: How Thursday's action will affect you
       1 hour ago
     *

The two sides of Scotland's gender law debate
       21 December 2022
     *

Afghanistan: 'Not a country but a cage for women'
       3 hours ago
     *

If no one comes we close early, says pub
       21 December 2022
     *

Survivor: Entering Nazi camp meant a death sentence
       20 December 2022
     *

How 'awful body shaming' hurts Strictly star
       15 minutes ago
     *

Billionaire tech boss shares secret for sorting emails
       8 hours ago
     *

'I was homeless - now dozens join my Christmas hikes'
       21 December 2022
     *

Ghost Town: 'The song Thatcher wishes was never released'
       20 December 2022
     *

Ros Atkins on... China’s Covid surge
       20 December 2022
     *

The trip that transformed Australia and China ties
       20 December 2022
     *

Who could replace Elon Musk as Twitter boss?
       20 December 2022
     *

Harrison says revenge porn experience like 'grief'
       20 December 2022
     *

Should I swap my bedroom bulb for battery lights?
       19 December 2022
     *

The boy named Wealthy who weighs half what he should
       20 December 2022
     *

The Ambulance Strike
       7 February 2020

Most read

   Content is not available

     {{rankTranslation}}
   {{promo.headlines.shortHeadline}}

   BBC News
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Contact the BBC
     * (BUTTON) AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

   © 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
   sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
