   #publisher alternate alternate

   (BUTTON)

   Discover Thomson Reuters
   Directory of sitesLoginContactSupport
   for-phone-onlyfor-tablet-portrait-upfor-tablet-landscape-upfor-desktop-
   upfor-wide-desktop-up
   UK
   Updated

Unilever agrees to talks over pension dispute

   By Reuters Staff

   2 Min Read
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   LONDON (Reuters) - Consumer goods group Unilever Plc/NV has agreed on
   Friday to talks with British trade union leaders to try and resolve a
   dispute over pensions which led to a series of strikes at its UK plants
   over the last two months.

   British workers walked out on strike after Unilever moved to axe its
   final salary pension scheme, a move that will hit pensions for 5,000 of
   the group’s 7,000 UK employees. The strike action is the first in
   Britain in the group’s 82-year history.

   Unilever, which makes household goods brands like Persil, PG Tips and
   Hellmann’s, said it had agreed to talks with three of Britain’s biggest
   unions Unite, GMB and Usdaw through mediation organisation ACAS. The
   move was immediately welcomed by the unions after Unilever had refused
   to talk about the pensions dispute since October.

   No date has been agreed for the talks, but are expected by both parties
   to start towards the end of next week.

   Around a third of Unilever’s British workforce are union members and
   were involved in a one-day strike in December, and then in 11 days of
   rolling strikes across the group’s 12 UK plants and offices during
   January.

   Unilever says rising life expectancy and market volatility mean
   pensions based on final salaries are outdated, while the trade unions
   says the dispute will continue until proposals have been put forward
   that are acceptable to its members.

   Reporting by David Jones; Editing by Andrew Callus

   Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

     * Apps
     * Newsletters
     * Advertise with Us
     * Advertising Guidelines
     * Cookies
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy
     * Do Not Sell My Personal Information

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete
   list of exchanges and delays.
   © 0 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
   for-phone-onlyfor-tablet-portrait-upfor-tablet-landscape-upfor-desktop-
   upfor-wide-desktop-up
