   #InYourArea.co.uk

   InYourArea.co.uk

   Home News Community Things to do Homes near you Items for sale
   Advertise with us

Our use of cookies

Options

   ‹ Back

   We use cookies to help our site work, to understand how it is used, and
   to tailor the adverts presented on our site. By clicking “Accept”
   below, you agree to us doing so. You can read more in our cookie
   notice. Or, if you do not agree, you can click Manage below to access
   other choices.
   (BUTTON) Accept (BUTTON) Manage

   You can choose whether or not to accept advertising cookies from our
   advertising partner Google using the buttons below. If you choose not
   to, you will still see adverts on our site, because they help us to
   fund it, but those adverts will not be tailored to you. You can also
   choose not to accept session and analytics cookies through the settings
   in your browser, but some parts of our site might stop working as a
   result. You can also learn more in our cookie notice.
   (BUTTON) Accept Ad Cookies (BUTTON) Decline Ad Cookies

   (BUTTON) Update Cookie Settings (BUTTON) ×

   getreading

           More dates added as South Western Railway strikes continue

     *
     *
     *

   2018-08-17

    By Lucy Thorne

   South Western Railway staff will walkout for 24 hours this weekend as
   strike action continues.

   Passengers who use the network are likely to face delays as reduced
   services and replacement buses are run on some routes on Saturday,
   August 18.

   The National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) is
   continuing its strike action over an ongoing dispute over train guard
   safety.

   It has added three new dates to its walkouts, including extending a 48
   hour strike to become a 72 hour walkout.

   South Western Railway (SWR) has warned the action could cause
   disruption to people in Bracknell, Wokingham and Reading, Berkshire.

      Read More

     * This is how much Reading train tickets could go up next year

   A spokesman for SWR said: “It is extremely disappointing that the RMT
   has yet again chosen to needlessly inconvenience our customers, and its
   own members, across our network.

   “We are committed to resolving this dispute and earlier this week met
   with the RMT at Acas, reiterating our proposed framework agreement
   which centres around how we can better keep our customers moving during
   times of disruption.

   “Despite the RMT agreeing to a similar deal with another train operator
   just a few weeks ago, the union has failed to explain to us, their
   members or our customers why such a deal is not acceptable on our
   network.

   “The RMT executive’s answer to every question is strike - they need to
   start accepting that the railway is modernising and that their members
   can play a key part in that future if only they stop calling for action
   and work with us to deliver a better railway for our customers.

      Read More

     * How Berkshire passengers can get cheaper train tickets

   “This decision is totally unnecessary and pointless – we cannot make it
   any clearer that our plans mean more not fewer guards, we have
   guaranteed to roster a second person on all our trains and we have
   guaranteed terms and conditions.

   “We will continue to do everything we can to minimise disruption to
   passengers while the RMT persists with these unnecessary strikes.”

   Strike action on Saturday, August 11 was suspended after talks between
   the union and the train company.

  Strike dates

     * 0001 hours and 2359 hours on Saturday, August 18
     * 0001 hours on Friday, August 31 and 2359 hours on Sunday, September
       2
     * 0001 hours and 2359 hours on Saturday, September 8
     * 0001 hours and 2359 hours on Saturday, September 15

   To see how these strikes will affect you and how to claim money back
   that may be owed, visit South Western's website.

            Enter your postcode to see news and information near you

   ____________________ Go

   InYourArea.co.uk © 2022

   Proudly published with Ghost
