   #alternate Strikes Sweep Britain as Workers Demand Better Pay

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) Sections
   (BUTTON) SEARCH
   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Business

   Today’s Paper

   Business|Strikes Sweep Britain as Workers Demand Better Pay
   https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/02/business/uk-strikes-workers-walkout-
   rail.html
     * (BUTTON) Give this articleGive this articleGive this article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   Advertisement
   Continue reading the main story

   Supported by
   Continue reading the main story

Strikes Sweep Britain as Workers Demand Better Pay

   Backed by unions and tired of years of low wage growth, workers are
   making bold pay demands to cope with the rising cost of living. Some
   say this is just the beginning.
     * Send any friend a story
       As a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month.
       Anyone can read what you share.
       (BUTTON)
       (BUTTON) Give this articleGive this articleGive this article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   Eshe Nelson

   By Eshe Nelson

   Eshe Nelson, who covers business and economics in Britain, reported
   this article in Felixstowe and London.
   Sept. 2, 2022

   Image
   Workers on strike at the Port of Felixstowe last month.Credit...Max
   Miechowski for The New York Times
   Image
   A worker on a picket line outside the Royal Mail delivery office in
   Whitechapel, in East London.Credit...Max Miechowski for The New York
   Times

   For eight days in late August, the Port of Felixstowe — usually a scene
   of constant motion as Britain’s busiest container shipping dock — was
   almost devoid of activity, with few goods coming in or out. For the
   first time in more than three decades, its workers were on strike.

   The walkout escalated the workers’ eight-month pay dispute with the
   port and CK Hutchison, its Hong Kong-based parent company. But it is
   just one of dozens of strikes that have swept Britain this summer, with
   more probably coming in the months ahead.

   Demands for better pay in the face of soaring inflation — at 10.1
   percent, the highest rate in 40 years — and a coming 80 percent jump in
   energy bills have led hundreds of thousands of people in Britain to
   walk off their jobs, bringing a halt to train services, trash
   collection and port shipments around the country.

   Job actions are not unusual in Britain, but the country hasn’t seen
   this kind of explosion of industrial action, in so many walks of life,
   in decades. It’s occurring amid a political vacuum, as the government,
   led by the Conservative Party, is holding a contest to succeed Boris
   Johnson as prime minister.

   “Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!” chanted the workers
   gathered on a traffic roundabout opposite the giant port’s entrance.
   They were led by Sharon Graham, the head of Unite, one of the biggest
   unions in the country, with more than a million members. She has been
   crisscrossing the country, joining negotiations and visiting picket
   lines.

   Image The Port of Felixstowe, Britain&rsquo;s busiest container
   shipping dock, has been unusually quiet with its workers on strike.
   The Port of Felixstowe, Britain’s busiest container shipping dock, has
   been unusually quiet with its workers on strike.Credit...Max Miechowski
   for The New York Times
   Image
   At Felixstowe, the union and its members are seeking a 10 percent
   raise. They have been locked in a dispute with the port and its parent
   company for eight months.Credit...Max Miechowski for The New York Times

   Here in Felixstowe, the union and its members are seeking a pay raise
   of 10 percent, a jump that seemed high earlier in the year when it was
   first proposed. But by the end of the year, when the Bank of England
   projects inflation will reach 13 percent, that demand will represent a
   pay cut in buying power.

   The strikers argue that the company’s multimillion-pound profit last
   year showed that it could afford to raise wages for workers who feel
   undervalued after working through the pandemic.

   “What we are asking for is a very small percentage of that profit,”
   said Phil Pemberton, who has been a union leader at the port for the
   past 14 years. As the workers who helped generate that profit, “we’re
   looking for a pay rise that we believe we deserve,” he added.

   Image
   ..“I just want to level the playing field between this sort of
   David-and-Goliath situation here,” said Sharon Graham, the general
   secretary of Unite, one of Britain’s largest unions.Credit...Max
   Miechowski for The New York Times

   There are few signs of imminent de-escalation. Rail workers across the
   country, as well as bus drivers, call center employees and criminal
   defense lawyers in England and Wales, are among those who have gone on
   strike in recent months over both new concerns about rising prices and
   long-running complaints about pay and management.

   This growing unrest, alongside a probable recession, will greet the
   next prime minister, scheduled to be announced on Monday; the choice is
   expected to be the current foreign secretary, Liz Truss.

Understand the Railroad Labor Talks

   Card 1 of 5

   Averting a shutdown. Congressional leaders vowed to prevent a
   nationwide rail strike, agreeing with President Biden that it
   could freeze a critical piece of the economy and potentially fuel
   further inflation in the United States. Here is what to know:

   Why are rail workers threatening to strike? Unions representing tens of
   thousands of workers said they planned to strike if a labor
   agreement with the freight rail companies employing them wasn’t
   reached. The workers are mostly concerned with their grueling,
   unpredictable schedules that make it difficult to attend medical visits
   or family events.

   Wasn’t there an agreement reached in September? The White House helped
   broker a tentative deal in September, but the proposal failed to win
   the approval of the workers at all of the unions involved. Many workers
   said that that deal did not address the deeper issue underlying their
   concerns: a business model that seeks to minimize labor costs and
   results in chronic understaffing.

   What was in that proposal? Under that agreement, new contracts would
   include a 24 percent increase in wages over five years and a payout of
   $11,000 upon ratification. Workers would also receive an additional
   paid day off as well as the ability to attend medical appointments
   without penalty.

   What’s at stake for the economy? Rail freight is the centerpiece of the
   global supply chain. A strike would slow down the circulation of key
   goods within the United States and with overseas trading partners. A
   disruption to the rail transport of crude oil, gasoline and diesel,
   meanwhile, could push up gas prices and drive further inflation.
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   In response to the strike, Hutchison Ports, a unit of CK Hutchison, has
   said it provides well-paid secure jobs and maintains that it is
   offering an increase in pay that is near the union’s demands. The
   company has also accused Unite of “promoting a national agenda” that is
   leaving its workers worse off. Logistics UK, a trade group, said
   disruption from the strike was minimal, as companies were able to move
   supplies in advance and Felixstowe tends not to be used for “just in
   time” supply chains.

   Image
   Phil Pemberton, a union leader at the Port of Felixstowe. He argued
   that workers were seeking a small part of the company’s
   profits.Credit...Max Miechowski for The New York Times

   After decades of decline, union membership has increased in four of the
   five past years in Britain. Still, less than a quarter of employees are
   part of a union. (In the United States, the share is 10 percent.)

   Decades ago, when large swaths of the economy like railroads, mining
   and telecommunications were publicly owned, unions were mostly
   negotiating with the government of the day. But since many of Britain’s
   large industries have been privatized, the fight is now with
   corporations and their shareholders.

   Faced with complex ownership structures that cross the globe, Unite has
   hired economists and forensic accountants to pore over the accounts of
   companies and use the information not just to pressure the company
   owners but also to alert investors and corporate partners to what the
   union believes are bad labor practices. Since Ms. Graham was elected
   general secretary of Unite about a year ago, the union has won an extra
   £150 million ($174 million) for members, succeeding in 80 percent of
   450 disputes.

   “I just want to level the playing field between this sort of
   David-and-Goliath situation here,” Ms. Graham said.

   This focus on profits and inequality has resonated with the public,
   said Sian Moore, a professor in employment relations and human resource
   management at the University of Greenwich. “They’ve hit a nerve with
   people.”

   The rail strikes this summer — the largest in three decades — brought
   much of Britain to a standstill, which could have ignited fury across
   the country. Instead, it made an overnight celebrity of Mick Lynch, the
   head of the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers, as
   clips of his spirited television interviews circulated widely on social
   media.

   Image
   Strikes have brought to a halt train services, trash collection and
   port shipments around the country.Credit...Max Miechowski for The New
   York Times
   Image
   Felixstowe strikers argue that the port company’s profits show that it
   can afford to raise wages.Credit...Max Miechowski for The New York
   Times

   Last Friday, about 115,000 postal workers walked off the job, and
   letter delivery was canceled. For 500 years, mail was part of the
   state, but Royal Mail Group is now fully privatized, and its largest
   shareholder is a Czech billionaire. Earlier in the year, Royal Mail
   Group increased pay 2 percent, but union members have said they want a
   raise in line with the cost of living without the loss of other
   benefits.

   Given the company’s reported profit (£370 million last year), “it’s a
   bit of a kick in the teeth when they turn around and say they haven’t
   got the money,” said Hannah Carroll, a 29-year-old postal worker in
   East London, who said she had worked throughout pandemic lockdowns as
   the only earner in her household.

   On a London picket line where staff members were flying the bright pink
   flags of the Communications Workers Union, many pointed to the £400
   million returned to shareholders by Royal Mail in the fiscal year to
   March and disputed the company’s insistence that it couldn’t afford to
   pay significantly more. The company said the pandemic had upended its
   business and amid greater competition it lost £1 million a day in the
   first quarter; it also noted that Royal Mail employees make up many of
   its shareholders.

   With so many vital public services being disrupted, bleak comparisons
   have been made to the late 1970s and Britain’s infamous Winter of
   Discontent. More than a million workers in 1979 went on strike to
   protest the government’s attempt to impose a public-sector pay ceiling
   to try to control soaring inflation. Trash piled up, schools closed,
   hospitals turned away nonemergency patients, some dead went unburied,
   and eventually the crisis forced out Labour lawmakers and ushered in a
   Conservative government led by Margaret Thatcher.

   Dave Ward, the general secretary of the Communications Workers Union,
   believes today’s unrest will last longer than a wave of summertime
   strikes. “This is also signaling a complete break from the traditional
   ways that companies are being run,” he said. “And it’s potentially
   filling the vacuum that exists politically.”

   Many of the issues at the heart of these strikes, such as the
   privatization of public services and weak pay growth, are long-running.
   But the spur to action may have been the pandemic lockdowns, which
   awoke many people to greater inequalities in and out of work and
   encouraged some to demand more from their employers as they struggle
   with the highest inflation rate in decades.

   Image
   Dave Ward, the general secretary of the Communications Workers
   Union.Credit...Max Miechowski for The New York Times

   Next week, criminal defense lawyers who appear in court with people
   using legal aid will begin an indefinite strike, causing a halt to
   thousands of trials. The lawyers, members of the Criminal Bar
   Association, are trying to force the government to increase their fees
   to stem an exodus of lawyers from legal aid.

   The issues go beyond pay. The criminal court has a backlog of 59,000
   cases, a symptom of a “crumbling” system where neither victims nor
   suspects are being treated fairly, said Amos Waldman, a criminal
   defense lawyer in Manchester who practices in other areas of law to
   support his family, including a 1-year-old daughter.

   “It’s not just the financial impact on us — although there is a great
   financial impact — it’s justice generally,” he said. “Justice is either
   delayed or it’s denied.”

   The Ministry of Justice has called the strike “irresponsible.” Still,
   the issue will be in the in-tray of the next justice minister, and
   other ministers will be facing similar challenges. A large civil
   service union is preparing a vote for a nationwide strike in September,
   and similar votes are underway or being prepared for many National
   Health Service workers and teachers’ unions.

   There is a possibility of coordinated action among different unions in
   coming months, Professor Moore said. “There could be a crisis.”

   Image
   Hannah Carroll, a Royal Mail worker based at the Whitechapel delivery
   office.Credit...Max Miechowski for The New York Times

   Advertisement
   Continue reading the main story

Site Information Navigation

     * © 2022 The New York Times Company

     * NYTCo
     * Contact Us
     * Accessibility
     * Work with us
     * Advertise
     * T Brand Studio
     * Your Ad Choices
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Service
     * Terms of Sale
     * Site Map
     * Canada
     * International
     * Help
     * Subscriptions

   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
