   #alternate alternate alternate

We've updated our Privacy and Cookies Policy

   We've made some important changes to our Privacy and Cookies Policy and
   we want you to know what this means for you and your data.
     * (BUTTON) OK
     * Find out what's changed

Let us know you agree to data collection on AMP

   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and collect
   browsing data to give you the best online experience and to personalise
   the content and advertising shown to you. Please let us know if you
   agree.
     * (BUTTON) Accept data collection and continue
     * (BUTTON) Manage my settings

Manage consent settings on AMP pages

   These settings apply to AMP pages only. You may be asked to set these
   preferences again when you visit non-AMP BBC pages.

   The lightweight mobile page you have visited has been built using
   Google AMP technology.

Strictly necessary data collection

   To make our web pages work, we store some limited information on your
   device without your consent.

   Read more about the essential information we store on your device to
   make our web pages work.

   We use local storage to store your consent preferences on your device.

Optional data collection

   When you consent to data collection on AMP pages you are consenting to
   allow us to display personalised ads that are relevant to you when you
   are outside of the UK.

   Read more about how we personalise ads in the BBC and our advertising
   partners.

   You can choose not to receive personalised ads by clicking “Reject data
   collection and continue” below. Please note that you will still see
   advertising, but it will not be personalised to you.

   You can change these settings by clicking “Ad Choices / Do not sell my
   info” in the footer at any time.
     * (BUTTON) Accept data collection and continue
     * (BUTTON) Reject data collection and continue

   BBC NewsSkip to content

   (BUTTON) Sections
     * Home
     * UK
     * World
     * Business
     * Politics
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Health
     * Family & Education
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Stories

     * Home
     * UK
     * World
     * Business
     * Politics
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Health
     * Family & Education
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Stories

   Advertisement

Who's going on strike, and when?

   22 August 2022
   Updated 29 September 2022

   Image source, PA Media
   Image caption,

   Commuters at rush hour during a strike on Thursday

   Thousands of workers across a number of industries are taking, or
   considering, strike action.

   Many unions say wages are not keeping pace with the rising cost of
   living and their members need a pay rise.

   So who's going on strike, when, and how will it affect you?

Railways

   Railway unions are in a continuing dispute with the government and
   railway companies over pay, job cuts and changes to terms and
   conditions.

   Advertisement

   No more strike dates have currently been set, but more strikes are very
   likely, says union boss Mick Lynch after a summer of disrupted travel
   for passengers. Unions have to give two weeks' notice of any walkout.

   Strikes in recent weeks left only 20% of trains running on some days
   and no services in parts of the country - hitting commuters and people
   travelling to big events such as the Commonwealth Games.

Barristers

   Image source, Reuters
   Image caption,

   The chairman of the Criminal Bar Association, Jo Sidhu, speaks during a
   strike in June

   Criminal barristers in England and Wales are taking part in an
   indefinite, uninterrupted strike over an ongoing row with the
   government over pay, working conditions and legal aid funding.

   The strike ramped up in September. Before that, barristers were
   striking on alternate weeks and refused to carry out certain types of
   work.

   The focus of the dispute is over the fees barristers receive for legal
   aid work, meaning when they represent defendants who cannot otherwise
   afford lawyers. Barristers are due to receive a 15% rise - but the
   Criminal Bar Association rejected this and is asking for a 25% rise in
   these legal aid fees.

   At the end of September, the government made a fresh offer with fee
   increases for legal aid work. Barristers will now be asked to vote on
   the proposals and whether to end the strike.

   During previous days of industrial action between 27 June and 5 August,
   according to the government some 6,235 court cases were disrupted,
   including 1,415 trials.

Postal services

   Workers at Royal Mail have voted for further strike action - after
   already deciding to walk out on 26 and 31 August, and 8 and 9
   September.

   During strike days, Royal Mail said it would not deliver letters -
   except for special delivery - and would prioritise Covid tests and
   prescriptions and deliver as many tracked and special delivery parcels
   are possible. Post offices will be open, apart from on 26 and 27 August
   when a few branches will be shut.

   The Communication Workers Union (CWU) has asked for a pay rise that
   reflects the current cost of living.
     * Which workers are allowed to go on strike?
     * Criminal barristers vote to go on all-out strike
     * Strike continues at UK's biggest container port

Container ports

   Image source, Reuters
   Image caption,

   Workers protest outside of the UK's biggest container port in Suffolk

   A strike at the UK's busiest container port is under way after union
   members walked out on Sunday for an expected eight-day walkout.

   The Port of Felixstowe in Suffolk handles about 48% of the UK's
   container trade. Freight transport body Logistics UK said it was "not
   expecting massive disruption", but shipping group Maersk disagreed -
   warning that some vessels could be delayed.

   Incoming container ships, mainly from the Far East, contain millions of
   pounds of goods - including clothing destined for High Street stores
   and electrical components used by factories.

   Risk management firm Russell Group says that trade could be diverted to
   other ports, That move could lead to a delay in goods reaching their
   buyers.

   A previous 7% pay offer from the port operator was described as
   "significantly below" the rate of inflation by Unite.

Telecoms

   BT and Openreach workers have announced fresh strikes after thousands
   of staff walked out twice in July in a row over pay.

   The CWU said about 40,000 members will walk out on 30 and 31 August.

   BT said it would postpone any non-essential planned engineering or
   software updates, in a bid to reduce the impact of industrial action.

Teachers

   Image source, Getty Images
   Image caption,

   Teachers are asking for a 12% pay rise

   Various teaching unions have planned or threatened to take strike
   action over disputes on pay and working conditions - with unions
   calling for a 12% pay rise.

   NEU members working in sixth form colleges will be walking out on 17
   October.. If necessary further strike days will be held on 5 and 20
   November.

   Members of teaching union NASUWT have also warned of a potential vote
   on strike action after its members in Wales rejected a below-inflation
   pay rise.

Hospitals

   Unite and the Royal College of Nursing have said that hundreds of
   thousands of NHS workers will be balloted on strike action in a protest
   over a salary offer.

   The new chief executive of Bristol Royal Infirmary has warned there is
   a "real risk" staff at Bristol hospitals will walk out in the summer.

   Union leaders similarly warned at the beginning of August that NHS
   workers in Scotland were prepared to strike over pay - including
   doctors.

Refuse workers

   Image source, PA Media
   Image caption,

   Edinburgh is facing a 12-day waste collection strike

   Refuse workers across Scotland are striking after unions rejected a pay
   offer equivalent to a 3.5% increase.

   A 12-day walkout in Edinburgh has started with residents warned to
   expect "significant disruption" as rubbish has started to pile up
   across the city.

   Residents in the city are being asked to keep their rubbish inside as
   waste starts to pile high.

   Other waste collection workers across the country have also planned
   walkouts, including refuse staff in Windsor and Maidenhead.

What are the rules for strikes?

     * A strike can only happen if a majority of union members agree to it
       via an organised vote, known as a ballot
     * If workers do decide to take industrial action, the employer must
       be given 14 days notice, unless otherwise agreed
     * Police officers are banned from taking strike action and nurses
       have an agreement that they should only walk out if it does not
       risk the wellbeing of patients
     * Workers on strike can expect to lose wages for the time they do not
       work
     * People can choose to continue working during a strike

   The government has recently introduced a new law allowing businesses to
   use temporary agency workers to fill in for striking workers.

   However, the union Unison says it will mount a legal challenge.

   Elsewhere in the UK, other strikes and threats have amounted over the
   summer:
     * Bus drivers in Kent and Essex are set to strike after turning down
       a pay offer, but official dates are yet to be set
     * Journalists at a newspaper group in Scotland have withdrawn plans
       to strike in a dispute over compulsory redundancies
     * More than 1,000 council staff in Northern Ireland have walked out
       over a pay and conditions dispute
     * Staff at a contact centre in Liverpool which handles thousands of
       criminal background checks staged a six-day strike

Related topics

   Strike action

Related content

     *

Trade unions: What are they and who is allowed to strike?
       22 August 2022
     *

Heathrow BA strike suspended after new pay offer
       7 July 2022
     *

Thousands of BT workers vote to strike over pay
       30 June 2022

Top Stories

     *

William's godmother quits over remarks to black charity boss
       42 minutes ago
     *

HSBC to close 114 UK branches as more bank online
       4 hours ago
     *

LIVE Live, World Cup: Argentina pressing against Poland and Saudi Arabia v
Mexico goalless

Features & Analysis

     *

Profile: Lady Susan Hussey
       1 hour ago
     *

‘How I escaped my father’s militia’
       29 November 2022
     *

Why Nigel Farage is wrong about 'minority white' London
       7 hours ago
     *

A trip to the park - no mums allowed
       30 November 2022
     *

Germans struggle with influx of Ukrainian refugees
       30 November 2022
     *

Looking back at Girls Aloud's 20-year pop legacy
       30 November 2022
     *

Ros Atkins on... China's protest crackdown
       30 November 2022
     *

How will Royal Mail strikes affect Christmas deliveries?
       30 November 2022
     *

USA relishing Dutch battle - with or without Pulisic
       30 November 2022
     *

'School talked only about care leavers going to prison'
       30 November 2022
     *

Rashford and Foden fire England to victory against Wales
       29 November 2022
     *

Why is bird flu so bad this year?
       9 hours ago
     *

Can age verification stop children seeing porn?
       29 November 2022
     *

And the word of the year is... gaslighting
       29 November 2022
     *

Dramatic photos from China protests
       28 November 2022
     *

The secret diary of a gay England fan in Qatar
       29 November 2022
     *

Uganda's other fight against Ebola
       29 November 2022
     *

'We cut back but our energy bill tripled to £442 a month'
       29 November 2022
     *

The people finding a way to spread the cost of Christmas
       29 November 2022

Most read

   Content is not available

     {{rankTranslation}}
   {{promo.headlines.shortHeadline}}

   BBC News
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Contact the BBC
     * (BUTTON) AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

   © 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
   sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
