   #alternate alternate alternate

We've updated our Privacy and Cookies Policy

   We've made some important changes to our Privacy and Cookies Policy and
   we want you to know what this means for you and your data.
     * (BUTTON) OK
     * Find out what's changed

Let us know you agree to data collection on AMP

   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and collect
   browsing data to give you the best online experience and to personalise
   the content and advertising shown to you. Please let us know if you
   agree.
     * (BUTTON) Accept data collection and continue
     * (BUTTON) Manage my settings

Manage consent settings on AMP pages

   These settings apply to AMP pages only. You may be asked to set these
   preferences again when you visit non-AMP BBC pages.

   The lightweight mobile page you have visited has been built using
   Google AMP technology.

Strictly necessary data collection

   To make our web pages work, we store some limited information on your
   device without your consent.

   Read more about the essential information we store on your device to
   make our web pages work.

   We use local storage to store your consent preferences on your device.

Optional data collection

   When you consent to data collection on AMP pages you are consenting to
   allow us to display personalised ads that are relevant to you when you
   are outside of the UK.

   Read more about how we personalise ads in the BBC and our advertising
   partners.

   You can choose not to receive personalised ads by clicking “Reject data
   collection and continue” below. Please note that you will still see
   advertising, but it will not be personalised to you.

   You can change these settings by clicking “Ad Choices / Do not sell my
   info” in the footer at any time.
     * (BUTTON) Accept data collection and continue
     * (BUTTON) Reject data collection and continue

   BBC NewsSkip to content

   (BUTTON) Sections
     * Home
     * UK
     * World
     * Business
     * Politics
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Health
     * Family & Education
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Stories

     * Home
     * UK
     * World
     * Business
     * Politics
     * Tech
     * Science
     * Health
     * Family & Education
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Stories

   Advertisement

Public sector strikes hit schools and services around the UK

   10 July 2014
   To play this content, please enable JavaScript, or try a different
   browser
   Video caption,

   Teachers, firefighters and council staff rallied in what was thought to
   be the biggest day of industrial action for years

   Hundreds of thousands of people have taken part in rallies and marches
   across the UK as part of a day of strike action by public service
   unions.

   Teachers, firefighters and council workers joined the strike, which
   follows disputes with the government over pay, pensions and cuts.

   Thousands of pupils were affected as some 6,000 schools in England
   closed, the Department for Education said.

   The Cabinet Office described the action as "irresponsible".

   Advertisement

   But Trades Union Congress (TUC) general secretary Frances O'Grady said
   workers had gone on strike "to say enough is enough".

   The GMB and Unison unions said more than one million people had taken
   part in the strikes.

   But Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude said fewer than 500,000 had
   participated.

   And a government spokesman said "most" public sector workers had
   reported for work and "nearly all key public services" were delivered
   as normal.

Bin collections

   Disruption across the UK included:
     * Some 21% of schools in England were closed, according to the
       Department for Education. In Wales, 912 schools were closed with
       215 others reporting disruption
     * Museums closed in Edinburgh, Nottingham and Leicester, many
       libraries were closed, and bin collections were halted in Derby
     * Some airports - including Heathrow and Luton - warned passengers
       about possible delays due to border control staff striking
     * A spokesman said 919 Scottish government staff were taking part in
       industrial action - just over 12% of the workforce
     * In Northern Ireland, Belfast Zoo, leisure centres, public toilets,
       recycling centres and civic amenity sitesclosed
     * In Wales, all business at the Welsh assembly was cancelled, the
       DVLA centre in Swansea warned of delays, while the National Museum
       in Cardiff closed

   Image source, PA
   Image caption,

   Workers in Newcastle joined those on strike over pay and other issues

   Image source, Reuters
   Image caption,

   Pay was a central reason for the strikes, unions said

   Image source, Getty Images
   Image caption,

   The GMB union said more than one million people were on strike

   The government also said one fifth of civil servants - fewer than
   90,000 workers - had been on strike and that 717 Jobcentres had been
   unaffected.

   The Local Government Association said around 95% of council staff were
   at work across England, Wales and Northern Ireland.

At the scene

   Image source, Getty Images
   Image caption,

   Public sector workers gathered in Trafalgar Square in central London

   Sophie Hutchinson at Trafalgar Square

   Several thousand demonstrators have marched down London's Regent Street
   chanting and waving their different coloured banners to a rally in
   Trafalgar Square.

   Workers from right across the public sector are here. They are members
   of more than six different public sector unions, representing teachers,
   civil servants, NHS staff, local council employees and firefighters.

   All of them are braving the spitting rain and determined to take part
   in what they insist is their legal right to protest.

   The complaint that unites most is over pay. Chants of "fair pay" can be
   heard from the crowd and the rally began with calls for a living wage,
   which was met with great applause.

   These public sector workers claim that they are not seeing any benefit
   from a recovering economy and that the pay freeze and 1% cap on a rise
   which they've seen in the last four years, has left them £4,000 worse
   off than in 2010.

   The mood of this protest is good-tempered and relatively upbeat but the
   demonstrators' message to ministers shows their growing resentment and
   frustration.

   Thousands of people have taken part in marches and rallies across the
   UK, with an estimated 1,500 people marching through central London and
   2,000 people in Brighton, according to police.

   Large rallies were also held in Birmingham, Newcastle, Swansea and
   several other cities.

   Picket lines were also mounted outside courts, council offices, job
   centres and fire stations across the country as well as outside the
   Houses of Parliament in London.

Pay cap

   The biggest issue in the dispute is pay, after ministers froze public
   sector salaries in 2010 and introduced a 1% cap on pay rises in 2012 -
   which remains in place.

   Those who have taken part in the action include:
     * Firefighters, who are on strike between 10:00 and 19:00 BST in a
       row over pensions and retirement age
     * The Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) - which represents
       civil servants, passport office workers and other public sector
       staff - in a dispute over pay, cuts to jobs, pensions and the
       privatisation of services
     * Unison which represents, among others, workers in local government,
       healthcare, colleges and schools
     * The GMB representing, among others, workers who serve school meals,
       clean streets, empty bins, carers and school support workers, in a
       row over this year's pay offer
     * Unite members - including local government staff, council workers
       and teaching staff - who also dismissed the "insulting" pay offer
     * The National Union of Teachers (NUT), whose general secretary
       Christine Blower said teachers "deeply regretted" taking strike
       action
     * Schools, courts, job centres and council services have been hit in
       Wales, where around 70,000 public sector workers are on strike
     * Members of the Northern Ireland Public Service Alliance, who work
       in a range of areas including housing, youth justice and libraries,
       striking over pay
     * RMT members working for Transport for London are striking over pay
       and pensions

   For Unite, Unison and the GMB, the strike action covers workers in
   England, Wales and Northern Ireland but not Scotland, while the PCS
   covers all four nations. The FBU and NUT have been striking in England
   and Wales only.

'Failure on all sides'

   Addressing the House of Commons, Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude
   said responsibility for the disruption caused by the action lay with
   union leaders.
   To play this content, please enable JavaScript, or try a different
   browser
   Video caption,

   Ed Miliband: "Nobody wants to see these strikes...they are always a
   sign of failure"

   Labour leader Ed Miliband told the BBC the government should bear the
   responsibility for the strikes, which represented a "failure on all
   sides".

   Unison general secretary Dave Prentis told BBC Breakfast workers had
   been left frustrated by over pay.

   "When Cameron brought in the two-year pay freeze, our local government
   workers, our members, had already had a one-year pay freeze.

   "So they've had a three-year pay freeze and then a 1% increase when
   inflation has gone up by something like 20%," he said.

Decent wage

   Elsewhere, fire chiefs urged people to take extra care because of the
   walkout between 10:00 and 19:00 BST - the 15th round of industrial
   action in the Fire Brigades Union's long-running row with the
   government.

   TUC general secretary Frances O'Grady said: "Across the public sector
   workers are on strike today to say enough is enough.

   "Year after year pay has failed to keep up with the cost of living."

   Analysis

   Image source, PA
   Image caption,

   Members from Unison, Britain's biggest trade union, demonstrate outside
   the Houses of Parliament

   BBC political correspondent Norman Smith

   Strikes are meant to cause maximum pain for employers but in this case
   it doesn't look like this is happening.

   Why? Because far from causing the government much political grief,
   today's strikes by public sector workers are actually rather
   politically convenient.

   Of course, there will be much ministerial condemnation of the
   disruption caused.

   But at the same time Conservative ministers hope popular annoyance will
   buttress support for their plans for further action to curb the power
   of unions.

   In particular, Prime Minister David Cameron is keen to include plans
   for a strike ballot threshold in his party's next manifesto.

   Today's strikes enable ministers to turn up the heat on Labour by
   pressing them to condemn the industrial action being carried out by
   their big union supporters.

   And they also expect widespread backing in the newspapers for their
   bullish stance.

   So, while in public ministers will appear angered by the strikes, in
   private they may be a good deal more relaxed.

   PCS general secretary Mark Serwotka said the action by public sector
   workers was about "demonstrating that they've had enough".

   He told BBC Radio 5 live: "If that means that fire stations and schools
   are closed, and there are delays at airports and that people find that
   they are inconvenienced, whilst we regret the inconvenience, what we're
   really trying to say is that everyone depends on our members' services,
   so start paying them a decent wage."

Ballot turnouts

   The strikes went ahead despite the government arguing they are based on
   ballots conducted some years ago, with low turnout from union members.

   Image source, PA
   Image caption,

   Members of the GMB union made their way through Brighton

   Image source, Getty Images
   Image caption,

   Picket lines were set up across the UK, with a man dressed as the grim
   reaper protesting in London

   On Wednesday, Mr Cameron said the time had come for legislation setting
   a minimum turnout for a strike ballot, promising this in the next
   Conservative manifesto.

   Under the current law, a strike can take place if it is backed by a
   simple majority of those union members who vote - regardless of the
   level of turnout.
   To play this content, please enable JavaScript, or try a different
   browser
   Video caption,

   Strikers respond to criticisms that their strike does not have a
   legitimate mandate

At the scene

   Image caption,

   Protests were held in Birmingham's Victoria Square

   BBC reporter Jo Black in Birmingham

   "We're hard-working people under attack. What do we do? We fight back!"

   I'm not sure it will be the next Christmas number one but this was the
   song blasting out of speakers in Birmingham's Victoria Square and the
   union members out on strike loved it. They cheered, sang along and
   waved their flags.

   After the singing, the rally moved around the city centre, on the
   march, past bemused shoppers.

   Of course these union members weren't the only ones off work today.
   Parents with children at schools affected by the strikes were also left
   with no option but to juggle childcare.

   Mums and Dads we spoke to ranged from annoyed to sympathetic, but the
   government's stance is less balanced.

   It says today's action was disruptive and says it will consider looking
   at introducing tougher anti-strike laws. The government says the case
   for reforms is gathering pace in the face of ballots with low levels of
   support.

   Education Secretary Michael Gove also criticised the NUT's ballot,
   which was held in 2012 with a turnout of 27%, telling BBC Newsnight
   schoolchildren needed protection from "politically-motivated industrial
   action".

   But the union's general secretary, Christine Blower, told the programme
   it was "perfectly legitimate".

Related content

     *

As it happened: Public sector strike action
       10 July 2014
     *

In pictures: Public sector strikes
       10 July 2014
     *

Public sector strikes: Why are workers walking out?
       9 July 2014
     *

Schools face disruption as NUT teachers strike
       10 July 2014
     *

Video, Public sector strike: 'Enough is enough' says Unison's Dave Prentis
       10 July 2014
     *

Video, Voices from the picket line: Public sector staff justify strike
       10 July 2014
     *

Video, Public sector workers in mass strike
       10 July 2014
     *

Government 'not budging' on public sector pay and pensions
       6 July 2014
     *

Video, PMQs: Cameron and Raab on strike ballot legislation
       9 July 2014
     *

David Cameron condemns public sector strike
       9 July 2014
     *

Video, Public sector strikes: Gove criticises 'damaging' walkout
       10 July 2014
     *

Video, Public sector strikes: NUT's Blower defends 'legitimate ballot'
       10 July 2014

Top Stories

     *

Sunak wants all pupils to study maths to 18
       4 hours ago
     *

The GPs under massive pressure as demand rises
       6 hours ago
     *

Russia blames attack on soldiers' mobile phone use
       7 hours ago

Features & Analysis

     *

How I overcame the urge to self-harm
       3 January 2023
     *

Sound Of 2023: Fred Again takes second place
       5 hours ago
     *

NHS Under Pressure
       7 February 2020
     *

The nun and the monk who fell in love and married
       2 January 2023
     *

‘I went through the menopause before my mum did’
       28 December 2022
     *

Teen faced terror charges despite evidence of grooming
       3 January 2023
     *

Snow shortage threatens Alps with wet winter season
       3 January 2023

Most read

   Content is not available

     {{rankTranslation}}
   {{promo.headlines.shortHeadline}}

   BBC News
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Contact the BBC
     * (BUTTON) AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

   © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
   sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
