                                 Imperial News

   News

 Junior doctor strikes in England had ‘significant impact’ on patient care

   by Kate Wighton

   20 February 2018

   The 2016 junior doctors strikes in England had a ‘significant’ impact
   on the provision of healthcare, with thousands of appointments
   cancelled.

   The study, by researchers at Imperial College London, also revealed
   significantly fewer admissions and A&E attendances than expected.

   The effects were greatest during the last of the periods of industrial
   action, when junior doctors withdrew emergency care.

   Professor Paul Aylin, senior author of the study from School of Public
   Health at Imperial, said: “Our research showed that the junior doctors’
   industrial action had a significant impact on care. As a result of the
   strike there were over 100,000 outpatient appointment cancellations and
   more than 25,000 fewer planned admissions than expected.”

   The research, published in the journal BMJ Open, showed there was no
   obvious change in the death rate during any of the strikes.

   In the first four months of 2016, junior doctors from all specialties
   across England went on strike in protest against contractual changes
   brought in by the government. Before these strikes there had been only
   one other strike in the previous 40 years, in 2012.

   Each of the four strikes lasted 24–48 hours: 12 January; 10 February;
   9-10 March; and 26-27 April. This last was the only strike that
   included withdrawal of emergency care.

   Gaps in routine care offer an opportunity to assess the effectiveness
   of current systems and pinpoint weaknesses in response to staff
   shortages.

Cancelled appointments

   The researchers, who were funded by the National Institute for Health
   Research, therefore compared hospital activity the week of each of the
   strikes with that from the preceding and following weeks. They focused
   on numbers of admissions, outpatient appointments, and A&E attendances.

   During the 12 weeks of the study, there were 3.4 million admissions, 27
   million outpatient appointments, and 3.4 million A&E attendances.

   Compared with the weeks preceding and following the strikes, there were
   over 9% (31,651) fewer admissions, nearly 7% (23,895) fewer A&E
   attendances, and 6% (173,462) fewer outpatient appointments than
   expected.

   April’s strike had the largest impact on services: there were over 15%
   (18,194) fewer admissions, including nearly 8% (3383) fewer emergency
   admissions, and almost 20% fewer planned admissions.

   Hospitals scheduled 11% (109,915) fewer outpatient appointments during
   this strike, while patients kept 134,711 (just over 17%) fewer of them.
   The number of outpatient appointments cancelled by hospitals also rose
   by almost 67% (43,823).

   During all four strikes, hospitals cancelled nearly 300,000 outpatient
   appointments – 52% higher than the volume expected for this period –
   possibly to protect more critical services, suggest the researchers.

   Certain regions seemed to be disproportionately affected. The
   proportion of cancelled appointments increased to between 66% and 68%
   in Yorkshire and the Humber, South East Coast, and London. These
   regions also had the largest proportions of missed appointments.

   The impact on emergency admissions was smaller, but greatest in the
   South West and the West Midlands.

Number of deaths

   The number of recorded deaths didn’t change significantly during the
   strikes and wasn’t higher than expected, due to relatively small
   numbers. But hospital mortality is likely to be the least sensitive
   outcome for quality and safety concerns in this context, the
   researchers point out.

   This is because deaths caused by poor care aren’t likely to show up
   immediately, nor is it clear whether patient health might have worsened
   as a result of delayed appointments and procedures, they explain.

   But these issues, along with the financial impact, might be fertile
   avenues to explore in future research, suggest the team from the Doctor
   Foster Unit at Imperial.

   They accept that they didn’t assess the impact of the strikes on
   patients who didn’t attend A&E, or the potential impact on the
   so-called ‘weekend effect,’ or how patients felt about their delayed
   care.

   But they nevertheless conclude: “Industrial action by junior doctors
   during early 2016 caused a significant impact on the provision of
   healthcare provided by English hospitals.”

    -

   "Retrospective analysis of the national impact of industrial action by
   English junior doctors in 2016" by Daniel Furnivall, Alex Bottle
   and Paul Aylin is published in BMJ Open.
   (DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019319)

   The views expressed in the article are those of the author(s) and not
   necessarily those of the NHS, the National Institute for Health
   Research, which funded the study, or the Department of Health.

   Adapted from a BMJ Open press release

   Article text (excluding photos or graphics) available under an
   Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike Creative Commons license.

   Photos and graphics subject to third party copyright used with
   permission or © Imperial College London.

                                Related content

Featured

     * Mr Danny Furnivall Department of Surgery & Cancer
     * Professor Paul P Aylin School of Public Health

Related stories

     * Changing GP opening hours unlikely to ease rising burden of A&E
       visits
